

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

Citation: Belaroussi, R.; Delhoum, Y.
Forecasting Daily Activity Plans of a
Synthetic Population in an Upcoming
District. Forecasting 2024, 6, 378–403.
https://doi.org/10.3390/
forecast6020021
Academic Editor: Sonia Leva
Received: 5 April 2024
Revised: 15 May 2024
Accepted: 17 May 2024
Published: 22 May 2024
Copyright: © 2024 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
forecasting 
Article
Forecasting Daily Activity Plans of a Synthetic Population in an
Upcoming District
Rachid Belaroussi *
 and Younes Delhoum
COSYS-GRETTIA, University Gustave Eiffel, F-77447 Marne-la-Vallée, France; younes.delhoum@univ-eiffel.fr
* Correspondence: rachid.belaroussi@univ-eiffel.fr
Abstract: The modeling and simulation of societies requires identifying the spatio-temporal patterns
of people’s activities. In urban areas, it is key to effective urban planning; it can be used in real
estate projects to predict their future impacts on behavior in surrounding accessible areas. The work
presented here aims at developing a method for making it possible to model the potential visits of the
various equipment and public spaces of a district under construction by mobilizing data from census
at the regional level and the layout of shops and activities as defined by the real estate project. This
agent-based model takes into account the flow of external visitors, estimated realistically based on the
pre-occupancy movements in the surrounding cities. To perform this evaluation, we implemented a
multi-agent-based simulation model (MATSim) at the regional scale and at the scale of the future
district. In its design, the district is physically open to the outside and will offer services that will
be of interest to other residents or users of the surrounding area. To know the effect of this opening
on a potential transit of visitors in the district, as well as the places of interest for the inhabitants,
it is necessary to predict the flows of micro-trips within the district once it is built. We propose
an attraction model to estimate the daily activities and trips of the future residents based on the
attractiveness of the facilities and the urbanistic potential of the blocks. This transportation model
is articulated in conjunction with the regional model in order to establish the flow of outgoing and
incoming visitors. The impacts of the future district on the mobility of its surrounding area is deduced
by implementing a simulation in the projection situation.
Keywords: agent-based model; attractivity law; MATSim; micromobility; real estate development
1. Introduction
In a city with an already-existing built environment, we can globally describe the
vitality of a district or a block of this district based on the activities that are proposed there,
the visitation of the place, the time that is spent there, and the speed at which one crosses it,
but also the travel time to reach this place. Urban design layouts contain information about
activities and their location; their a priori attractiveness requires the knowledge of town
planners. The frequenting of these places is deduced from the routes taken by the users
going to the zone, as well as their dynamics. This paper proposes to predict the movements
of future users of a future district based on available census data and future households
and the layout of the facilities of the district. This forecasting movement of people is based
on a simulation, which is not a common technique in forecasting but can be classified as
an agent-based method [1]. It is an agent-based model that takes into account the flows
of external visitors, realistically estimated based on pre-project travels in the district areas
of influence.
LaVallée is a large construction project recently started in Paris’s suburb. Its spatial
extent is about 20 hectares, part of a larger city called Châtenay-Malabry. The whole district
is to be delivered in 2027. The first roads are being built, and the first set of inhabitants
was installed by mid-2023. Figure 1 illustrates the mass plan in its urban context, with the
buildings’ footprints and the future facilities’ locations.
Forecasting 2024, 6, 378–403. https://doi.org/10.3390/forecast6020021 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/forecasting

===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 379
Figure 1. (Left): LaVallée: a 500 m × 400 m urban district under construction started in 2020. In
its urban context with the Parc de Sceaux to the east and its catchment area to the west and south.
(Right): Future activities in LaVallée.
It will house 6200 residents (20% of the city population), with a large set of services
ranging from a shopping street to a mall, schools, and office spaces for 1200 employees;
and the district is designed to be open to the rest of the city.
Our overall objective is to develop a method for forecasting the potential visits of the
various equipment and public spaces of the project by mobilizing current data from census
at the departmental level and the layout of shops and future activities inside LaVallée.
After generating the activity plans of the population of the catchment area in the
current reference situation and applying a process of adjustment of the time choice of
activities in [2], we have an accurate simulation of multimodal trips nowadays that we
call the reference scenario from this time forward. In this paper, we proceed to the location
choice of activities within the future neighborhood by simulating the trips of residents and
external visitors: we call it the projection scenario.
The projection scenario refers to the hypothetical future situation, in which the catch-
ment area including the LaVallée district and its agents is modeled. In this future situation,
the numerical data available on LaVallée are the total number of inhabitants, employees,
and students, respectively, in workplaces and schools. However, to be able to generate a
set of activity plans, it is necessary to have at least the places of activity of the residents, in
addition to the origin of employees and students.
Additionally, in our previous approach [2], the location-choice approach was a distance-
based method. At the scale of the neighborhood, for instance, LaVallée, for a given agent,
the distance from its domicile, as well as the possible set of destinations inside LaVallée,
is relatively the same. Correspondingly, distance-based location choice in this case is an
equivalent of random selection and, therefore, an inappropriate method to apply for a
neighborhood case. Given the limited data available on the new neighborhood and the
limitations of the distance-based approach, three key questions need to be addressed:
• How to generate activity plans for future neighborhood agents?
• How to assign a location to a secondary activity carried out at the neighborhood scale?
• What will be the impact of the new district on the catchment area?
The aim of this study is two-fold: First, modify the developed generator in [2] to take
into account the available data. Second, overcome the limits of the traditional distance-
based approach; we propose applying an attraction model for the location choice of activ-
ities within a future district. This approach is based on the attractiveness of the activity,
which takes into the account the type of activity, the spatial location, and the proximity
to other places of activities. As an application case, we will provide a forecasting of the
impact of the construction of the new district on the surrounding cities.

===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 380
2. Related Works: Activity-Based Models
The basis of an activity-based model in transportation is a synthetic travel demand
including a synthetic population of households and persons and their daily activity patterns
located in time and space. Travel demand synthesis is usually addressed as a two-step
process: a synthetic population is first generated with households and persons with their
socio-economic features, and then the daily activities of each person are devised. The
daily planning of an agent is made of a chain of activities such as Home, Work, Education,
Leisure, Shopping, and Catering, with a planned start time, duration, and location for
each activity as well as a mode of transportation to get to it. The obtained set of planning
constitutes the synthetic travel demand, which is fed to a transportation model, typically a
dynamic traffic assignment model [3,4] that loads the road network with the travelers and
finds their optimal routes until a dynamic user equilibrium is reached. It results in daily
traffic flows, at all times of the day, for each of the transportation modalities represented:
private vehicle, public transportation, bicycle, and walk typically.
A synthetic population is an approximation of a real population. The objective of a
population synthesis is to reproduce the underlying statistical properties of a real pop-
ulation based on available microsamples and marginal distributions of households and
persons. Several methods were proposed to generate a synthetic population; they require
at least a representative population sample data. These methods can be classified into three
groups: Synthetic Reconstruction (SR), Combinatorial Optimization (CO), and Machine
Learning (ML) [ 5]. The SR and CO methods produce synthetic populations by means
of replicating individuals, whereas ML methods generate a population following a joint
probability estimation. The SR approach is an earlier method for generating a synthetic
population; it uses a deterministic process to reconstruct the population by reproducing all
known constraints from census tables [6,7]. The two main synthetic reconstruction methods
are iterative proportional fitting and iterative proportional updating [8–10]; they can be
based on a microsample or sample-free [11,12]. In CO methods [13,14], data requirements
remain less restrictive than in SR methods, but their computational complexity increases for
large population sizes. ML focuses on the joint distribution of all attributes by estimating a
probability for each combination [15–17]. The aforementioned methods regard population
synthesis as an independent process to the downstream processing stage of defining the
activity planning of the generated population.
Defining daily activity patterns for the synthesized agents often uses statistical match-
ing approaches [18,19], which make use of a household travel survey containing an example
of real-life daily plannings and attach whole activity chains based on similarity to explana-
tory socio-demographic attributes.
According to their decision-making process (behavior choice), activity-based models
can be divided into two classes: econometric activity-based models and rule-based models.
The econometric models use mainly utility maximization-based equations, with the aim
of predicting the probability of decision outcomes (based on the relationship between
the travel and activity attributes). Several econometric models were developed, such
as CEMDAP [ 20] and MORPC [ 21]. A rule-based model is a computer program built
on a set of rules (a production system model): this approach can capture the schedules’
constraints directly. Several rule-based models were developed, such as SCHEDULER [22]
and TASHA [23].
An example of such an activity-based model is ALBATROSS [24]: a decision tree is
proposed as a formalism to represent an exhaustive set of mutually exclusive rules used to
derive decision trees from activity diary data. The survey asked people about the nature of
their activities for 2 days, the start and end times, the location where the activity took place,
the transport mode, and the travel time per mode. Socio-economic and space–time setting
attributes allow for identifying groups of individuals with a similar choice behavior.
TASHA [25] uses a bottom–up approach to generate its activity plans; the scheduling
process uses a predefined order of insertion of activities. Once the activities are inserted,
a specific process is applied to solve the generated conflicts due the overlapping of the

===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 381
inserted activities. However, this approach is not suitable in our study case because the
full chain of activities is already generated. In the proposed approach, the selection of
start time and duration takes into consideration the remaining activities and their temporal
constraints. The selection of both start time and duration will not generate conflicts.
In our case study, activity choice and their locations were previously addressed in [26],
and a time-choice process is presented in [2]. We use the MATSim (Multi-Agent Transport
Simulation [27,28]) framework for demand modeling and agent-based mobility simulation:
it is open-source and widely used to implement large-scale activity-based modeling.
The remainder of this paper is as follows: Section 3 gives an overview of the approach
to generate daily activity planning for future residents based on the facility layout of the
district. Section 4 presents the proposed methodology where the location of an activity
is influenced by the proximity of other animation centers in the process declined in three
stages: Generation, Assessment, and Selection. Primary and secondary activity plans are
then matched to the agents based on a set of constraints and a matching rate. Section 5
presents an application of the proposed methodology in the case study of the catchment
area including LaVallée in a future situation when the district is built. The potential of
visitation and the attractiveness of the future facilities are illustrated, and the concrete
daily planning of the future residents is detailed. Section 6 describes the impact of the new
district forecast on the surrounding cities by performing a simulation of the hypothetical
future situation. Section 7 concludes the article.
3. Overview of the Proposed Approach
In this section, we introduce the future LaVallée district along with its residents and
facilities integrated into the city’s layout. We simulate changes in the mobility patterns
of the surrounding catchment area within this projection scenario. To accomplish this,
we present a method for generating daily activity plans for the future residents based on
the layout of district facilities. These future residents are represented by agents who are
assigned both primary and secondary plans. Determining the locations for various activities
is a key challenge, particularly since we lack available data. To address this challenge, we
propose an attraction model based on the attractiveness of each facility. This attractiveness
is defined considering factors such as proximity to other facilities, accessibility, inherent
activity potential, and architectural ambiance-derived area potential. Additionally, we
extend this method to define activity locations for external visitors who come from the
catchment area for leisure, shopping, or dining purposes. We also introduce a method for
estimating the origins of external workers and students expected to engage in activities
within the district.
With the generated population, comprising future residents, external individuals,
and visitors, we simulate future mobility within the catchment area. We also consider the
potential for individuals to modify their plans based on the expected influx of visitors from
the city before analyzing the anticipated impact of LaVallée on its surroundings.
Our transportation simulation employs an activity-based model with a dynamic traffic
assignment. In this model, agents engage in various activities throughout the day, each
with predetermined locations and purposes. The choice of departure time and the mode of
transport is estimated based on traffic conditions, personal routing behavior, and individual
flexibility in adjusting schedules. Central to this work is activity modeling, where we
generate daily plans for each agent within the study area’s population. Each plan consists
of a sequence of activities an individual will partake in, along with legs representing trips
between activities. Each activity is defined by start and end times, duration, and location.
We used the MATSim (Multi-Agent Transport Simulation [27]) framework for demand
modeling and agent-based mobility simulation. This open-source framework is widely used
for implementing large-scale activity-based modeling. The study encompasses various trip
purposes, including Work, Education, Shopping, Leisure, Restaurant, and Kindergarten.
Transportation modes encompass Private Vehicles (cars), Public Transportation, Walking,

===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 382
and Bicycling. Public Transportation comprises buses (integrated into the car network),
railways, and tramways.
The transportation simulation MATSim is an activity-based model with a dynamic
traffic assignment. Throughout the day, agents engage in various activities, each with
predetermined locations and purposes. The selection of departure time and the mode
of transport is estimated based on traffic conditions, personal routing preferences, and
the individual’s ability to adjust their schedule. To estimate the trips of all the synthetic
population during the day, MATSim requires the planning of each agent, which is made
of a chain of activities. For each activity, the user specifies its transportation mode, the
start and end-time of the activity, and the location of the activity. This paper deals with the
construction of this initial demand input: the rest of MATSim is used as is. The demand is
fed to the population generator of MATSim, which loads the road network and performs
the dynamic traffic assignment until an equilibrium is reached. The result is a set of trips of
all agents during the day.
The primary focus of this paper deals with generating agent activity plans within the
new neighborhood, with three distinct groups of agents:
• Residents: These are the prospective inhabitants of the LaVallée district. At this stage
of real estate development, their home locations remain uncertain as apartments are
yet to be sold. Household compositions are assumed based on the number of flats
per parcel.
• Externals: These include workers and students who reside outside the district but
work or study within LaVallée’s workplaces or schools.
• Visitors: Visitors come from outside the district and engage in shopping, dining, or
other leisure activities within LaVallée during the day.
Our generator, based on a previous work [26], constructs two sets of plans: primary
and secondary. In our previous work, activities have predetermined locations estimated
based on public census. In the focus of this paper, we are studying the scenario of a new
future district for which secondary activity locations need to be estimated. Most of the
previous works in this domain only consider the structure of daily activity patterns, but
do not provide a method for estimating the locations in the study area. When analyzing
commuting patterns, gravity models have long been used. These models quantify the
flows between origins and destinations based on the production and attraction of each
zone. They are characterized by attributes such as travel time, land use, and employment.
However, these previous models do not take into account the propensity of humans to
choose a location with high urban vitality: they would choose an activity based on travel
time but also on the popularity of a place. Previous models would only consider travel
time as an essential element of the location-choice process: facilities isolated from other
centers of interest could be predominant in the planning of activities just because they are
closer to the previous activity location of an agent. The innovative contribution of our work
is integrating urban vitality; for each facility, an attractiveness measure is assessed based
on the urbanistic potential of the block it belongs to and the set of available other activities
accessible at a walking distance. We believe it conforms more to the human behavior that
favors successful places over travel time.
To tackle this problem, we propose a location-choice process based on an assess-
ment measure known as “attractiveness”, which involves three main stages: generation,
assessment, and selection.
The two sets of resident plans are generated separately, and a matching process is
applied to combine them, guided by predefined rates and constraints.
Subsequently, the primary generator is employed to generate plans for external agents,
focusing on work and education activities. While the locations of these activities are defined
within the neighborhood, the agents’ home locations remain unspecified. To resolve this, a
dedicated process selects each agent’s place of residence.

===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 383
Lastly, we address potential visitors who primarily engage in activities outside the
district. For each potential visitor, we propose conducting secondary activities within
LaVallée, with the choice of locations determined through our location-choice process.
An overview of the proposed approach is illustrated in Figure 2, while a more detailed
description is given in Figure 3.
Figure 2. Overview of the proposed approach to generate activity plans in the projected situation
at the district and catchment area levels. The activity plans of district residents and externals are
first generated. In parallel, the activity plans of the agents in the catchment area are generated in a
similar way to the reference situation, while for potential visitors, new plans will be included with a
secondary activity performed in the district.
Figure 3. The proposed approach for building the activity plans in a projection situation. The activity
plans in the reference situation are first generated by the developed generator in [ 26]. For agents
having at least one secondary activity, for instance, shopping, the set of plans is altered to include new
plans, in which the shopping activity will be performed in the district; the chosen facility is selected
by the developed location-choice process. At the same time, based on district demand, activity plans
are generated for residents, workers, and students. Finally, the different sets of plans are grouped
together to form the set of activity plans in the projected situation.
4. Methodology
4.1. Location-Choice Process
First, in the generation step, all the feasible instances of the activity sequences,
formed by the secondary activities, are generated. “Instances” are used as in the object-
oriented programming paradigm: they represent here a realization of a given chain of
activities with their locations. Activity sequences are the chain of activities, such as
Home–Work–Home–Leisure–Shopping–Home. Second, the assessment stage comprises
two parts: the definition and the application of the assessment measures. Assessment
measures are defined and used to estimate the attractiveness of LaVallée’s various facilities.
At the application stage, the previously generated instances are assessed based on the
defined measures. Third, the selection step is the important step of this process; based on a
set of constraints, an activity sequence instance is selected, and its locations are updated.

===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 384
4.1.1. Generation Stage
The initial step involves generating all feasible instances of activity sequences for
secondary activities. These sequences, including home activity, are then transformed
into home-based tours, with the home as both the first and last activity. Each activity
sequence is further transformed into a location sequence, instantiating each activity at all
available facilities. This process generates a relatively high number of instances, which
can be controlled by applying specific constraints, such as predefined combinations and
facility restrictions.
4.1.2. Assessment Stage
In the assessment stage, two parts are involved: defining and applying assessment
measures. Assessment measures are designed to estimate the attractiveness of various
facilities within LaVallée. Attractiveness is determined based on two factors: the facil-
ity’s geographical location and the a priori potential of its activity, which can be inferred
from urban metrics. These factors contribute to the calculation of an assessment measure
called “attractiveness”.
The attractiveness of a facility, denoted as f , is calculated as the product of its zone
potential α f and an inverse distance measure, which considers the activity potential and
the distance from facility f from all other facilities F in the neighborhood.
The two measures of facility f , which are its zone potential and attractiveness, are
given, respectively, in Equations (1) and (2).
α f = ∑
z∈Z
b f z · αz (1)
where
• f : facility of interest;
• α f : attractiveness potential of f ;
• z: urban zone;
• Z: set of urban zones;
• b f z : 1 if facility f belongs to zone z, 0 otherwise;
• αz: urbanistic potential of zone z.
A f = α f · ∑
i∈F
Pi
1 + d f i
(2)
where
• F: set of all facilities.;
• i: facility;
• Pi: activity potential of i;
• d f i: distance from f to i.
To assign an instance to an activity sequence, two measures are considered: attractive-
ness and travel time. Attractiveness sums the attractiveness values of all facilities within an
instance, while travel time pertains to the total tour travel time.
Two types of travelers are distinguished in this study: one is primarily interested in
benefit (attractiveness), and the other, in addition to attractiveness, considers travel time.
This leads to the proposal of two scoring measures. The first measure reflects the benefit
of an instance, equal to the sum of the attractiveness values of its facilities. The second
measure is expressed as the instance’s benefit modified by the instance’s travel timeTTinst,
resulting in a modified benefit score. These measures are formulated in Equations (3) and (4).
S1(inst ) = ∑
f ∈inst
A f (3)
S2(inst ) = ∑ f ∈inst A f
TTinst
= S1(inst )
TTinst
(4)

===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 385
Finally, benefit, travel time, and score metrics can be calculated for all the generated
instances.
4.1.3. Selection Stage
This third stage consists in selecting for each activity sequence of a traveler one or
more instances (tours). In the following, the inputs of the selection process will be presented
first, followed by an overview of the process.
The selection stage inputs are as follows:
• I: a set of generated instances.
• C: a set of constraints that will be used to restrict the set of instances by eliminating
those that are inconsistent. Mainly, these constraints are composed of an activity
sequence, in which we aim to select an instance, and at least one known place of
activity, for instance, the agent’s home.
• k and n, two parameters that define the number of instances selected after applying
the constrains C and for the final set, which is the output of the stage;
• Score measure of the selection process.
The selection procedure is detailed below.
First of all, the set of constraints C is applied to I; we refer to this filtered set of
instances by S.
Next, two picking rounds are applied: the2k-instances maximizing the benefit measure
are first selected from S; then the k-instances maximizing score are chosen.
After that, for each picked-up instance inst, its selection rate Rinst is calculated accord-
ing to its weight compared with the other instances; this rate is expressed in Equation (5).
Finally, based on the set of selection rates R, n-instances are selected. The description
of the entire location-choice process is shown in Figure 4.
Rinst = S(inst )
∑x∈I S(x) (5)
Figure 4. A detailed view of the location-choice process. It consists of a set of inputs and three main stages.
In the generation stage, all home-based tours with at least one secondary activity are first generated

===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 386
and then instantiated by all facilities F. In the assessment stage, the assessment measures are defined,
and then applied to facilities F and, subsequently, to the generated instances. In the selection stage,
the instances I are first filtered out by the constraints C. Next, two rounds of selection are applied,
keeping only the k-instances, with the highest score. Finally, a weighted selection is performed to pick
up a final set of n-instances.
4.2. Matching Process
In the third and crucial stage of the process, instances of activity sequences are selected
based on a set of constraints. Each selected instance’s location is updated according to
the chosen activity sequence. This stage is vital in determining the final locations for
secondary activities.
Additionally, there is a matching process introduced in this study. It combines primary
and secondary district agent activity plans to create a final set of plans. Each primary
plan is randomly selected, and a decision process is initiated to determine the eligibility
and willingness to participate in a secondary activity. If eligible and willing, a matching
procedure combines the primary and secondary instances to form an activity plan, which
is then added to the final set. This process is repeated for all primary plans, ensuring that
each is matched with a suitable secondary plan based on predefined constraints and a
matching rate.
The inputs of the matching process are presented as follows:
• Two sets of plans: primary plans P and secondary plans S.
• A set of matching conditions CP is used to realistically ensure that the selected primary
activity plan is eligible for matching. For instance, assume that a pupil will not go
alone to a restaurant or shopping center, and therefore, he cannot carry out a secondary
activity. Consequently, he is not eligible for matching and will have only a primary
activity plan.
• rmatch : the matching rate depends on the primary plan itself, and it is used to make
the decision of whether to match its primary plan or not.
As previously mentioned, before initiating the matching process, it is essential to de-
termine the eligibility of the primary activity plan. To address this, an additional “matching
decision” operation is incorporated into the process, and it operates as follows.
A primary plan p is first randomly selected from a set of plans P; then the decision
process can be performed. If p is not eligible for the matching process, the decision process
is ended and another primary plan is chosen. Next, the agent of the primary plan is asked
whether or not to participate in a secondary activity; the decision to participate depends on
rmatch . If so, the matching procedure can be applied.
The matching procedure begins by randomly selecting a secondary instance, labeled
as s. This instance is then combined with the primary plan p to create an activity plan
referred to as f , which is subsequently added to the final set F. The matching process will
be repeated for all plans within the set P.
Several noteworthy aspects warrant further clarification: In cases where n > 1, the
matching procedure selects a group of n secondary instances instead of a single one.
Additionally, after each successful combination of primary and secondary plans, both
the primary plan P and the secondary instance S are removed from their respective sets.
Additionally, each time an activity plan f is integrated into the final set F, counter variables
require updating to ensure compliance with facility constraints. For example, this ensures
adherence to maximum visitor limits.
In some instances, certain primary and secondary plans may remain unmatched by the
end of the matching process, meaning that they have not yet been included in the final set.
To address this situation, an integration process can be used. This process systematically
incorporates these unmatched primary plans, followed by secondary plans, into the final
set F, while adhering to the various constraints associated with the facilities involved.

===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 387
The processes of matching and integration of plans are shown in Figure 5 and
Figure 6, respectively.
Figure 5. A detailed overview of the proposed matching process. This process is divided into two
sections. Decision procedure: It selects an agent and its primary plan; then it tests its eligibility and its
willingness to perform a secondary activity. If so, the matching process will proceed. In the matching
procedure, a secondary plan will be selected, combined with the primary plan, and then included
in the final set of plans. At each insertion, the different sets of plans and certain counting variables
will be updated. The latter are important in the case of facilities with limited capacity; for instance, a
home facility has a limited number of inhabitants.
Figure 6. Integration of unmatched plans. Primary and secondary plans are sequentially integrated in
the final set of plans. The primary plans are the first ones inserted, which depend on the constraints
of the study, for instance, a known number of inhabitants per home location.

===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 388
5. Case Study: Projection Scenario
In this section, we will demonstrate the application of the proposed methodology
using the case study of the catchment area, which includes LaVallée. The presentation is
divided into two parts: Data Processing and Application of the Proposed Method.
Data processing begins by providing an overview of the available data concerning the
LaVallée district and its facilities. It also outlines certain assumptions made regarding the
attractiveness potential of activities and urban zones within LaVallée. Additionally, we
will look into the generation and assessment stages of the location-choice process. In the
second part, we will apply the methodology to generate activity plans for the population
within the catchment area. This population encompasses residents, externals (workers and
students), and other potential visitors to the LaVallée district.
5.1. LaVallée Case Study: Data Processing
The present section consists of a set of steps, which are presented as follows: First,
the data available on the LaVallée district and its facilities will be given. Then, a set of
assumptions, in particular the potential of attractiveness, both for activities and urban
zones in LaVallée, will be detailed. Finally, the set of instances of the secondary activities
performed in LaVallée will be generated, and then assessed according to two score measures
defined in Equations (3) and (4).
5.1.1. LaVallée: Available Data
At this stage of real estate development, the available data, such as the number of
inhabitants, provide us with a preliminary understanding of the distribution of agents
within LaVallée’s primary facilities. The available data can be categorized into: (1) the
distribution of inhabitants in LaVallée, (2) the potential number of students in schools (e.g.,
Groupe Scolaire, Collège) and kindergarten (Crèche), and (3) the number of employees in
specific facilities, including an office building (LIDL headquarters), a grocery store (LIDL
supermarket), and a co-working space.
The potential number of agents per primary facility in LaVallée is illustrated in Figure 7.
Each residential location is represented by a blue square, accompanied by the number
of future residents residing there. It is worth noting that the future LIDL headquarters
is expected to employ 1200 individuals, making it a significant attraction for external
visitors coming for work purposes. Similarly, the two schools have a combined capacity of
1270 pupils, which will also attract external visitors for educational purposes.
5.1.2. LaVallée Facilities: Potential and Attractiveness Measures
In the following sections, we will outline several assumptions regarding the potential
for attractiveness.
First, we assume that only secondary activities possess positive attractiveness potential.
Conversely, primary activities are considered neutral, resulting in zero potential. This
choice is grounded in the idea that secondary facilities, such as shops or leisure venues,
offer high-quality and enjoyable services, making them significant attractions not only for
themselves but also for neighboring facilities.
Second, we assume that a place of activity with high attractiveness will inevitably
experience high attendance. Therefore, it can be concluded that attractiveness potential
and the number of individuals engaging in an activity are strongly correlated.
To assign a potential value to an activity, we implemented the following process.
We extract observations from travel surveys like ENTD (National Census on Travel and
Transportation) that involve secondary activities. Subsequently, we calculate the ratio of
observations for each trip purpose among the following: Shopping, Leisure, and Restaurant.
This enables us to easily infer attractiveness potentials. From this survey, it can be inferred
that there are 5.8 times more trips for Shopping than for Restaurant and 3.2 times more
trips for Leisure purposes than the number of trips for Restaurant.

===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 389
Figure 7. The estimated number of agents in the different primary facilities.
It is important to highlight the uniqueness of the LIDL supermarket, a specific grocery
store in LaVallée, which happens to be the largest shopping facility and, therefore, signifi-
cantly more attractive than other standard shops. For the sake of simplicity, we assume
that its attractiveness potential is twice that of a typical shop.
The number of facilities and the potential attractiveness values per type of activity are
detailed in Table 1.
Table 1. Attractiveness potential Pact.
Activity act Number of Facilities Pact
Leisure 9 3.2
Shopping 16 5.8
Restaurant 9 1.0
Home 86 0
Work 3 0
Education 2 0
Kindergarten 1 0
One aspect that warrants further clarification is that the values presented have been
adjusted based on the ratios extracted from the ENTD survey. The objective of this adjust-
ment is to assign a value of 1 to the lowest positive potential. For example, the restaurant
ratio is 10%, and after adjustment, its potential becomes Prestaurant = 1.
The urbanistic potential of an urban zone is the second attractiveness potential, based
on the architectural ambiances expected by the real estate developer Eiffage. The LaVallée
district is divided into four urban zones: Cours du Commerce (mall street), Parc de Sceaux
(living in the park), Promenade Plantée (pedestrian street), and Jardin (communal garden).
Each zone has a specific potential value; these potentials are given in Table 2. LaVallée’s
facilities and urban zones are shown side by side in Figure 8.

===== PDF PAGE 13 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 390
Table 2. Urbanistic potential by zone.
Zone Number z Zone Name Zone Potential αz
Zone 1 Cours du Commerce
Mall street 1.5
Zone 2 Parc de Sceaux
Living in the park 1.1
Zone 3 Promenade Plantée
Pedestrian street 2.0
Zone 4 Jardin
Communal garden 1.6
Figure 8. LaVallée’s facilities and urban zones. (Left) Spatial distribution of facilities in the LaVallée
district. (Right) LaVallée’s four zones: (1) Cours du Commerce, (2) Parc de Sceaux, (3) Promenade
Plantée, and (4) Jardin.
A ballpark of the distribution of secondary facilities in LaVallée is as follows: shops
and restaurants are mainly located in Cours du Commerce, leisure facilities are distributed
along Promenade Plantée, the LIDL supermarket and some leisure facilities make up the
Parc de Sceaux zone, the Jardin zone only consists of a restaurant and leisure facilities, and
the other facilities are home locations.
From the activity and zone potentials, the attractiveness of facilities can be obtained
by applying Equation (2), and according to the values of this, four groups of facilities are to
be distinguished.
The first group contains only the LIDL supermarket, with its highest attractiveness
value. The facilities in the second group are mainly situated at the intersection of Cours
du Commerce and Promenade Plantée; those facilities have a high zonal potential value.
The facilities in the third group are located south of Cours du Commerce; this part of
the district is characterized by numerous facilities, which implies short travel distances
between facilities. The facilities in the fourth group are mostly located in the less dense
zones of the facilities, for instance, Jardin and Parc de Sceaux.
The attractiveness of the different facilities of LaVallée, computed from Equation (2),
is given in Figure 9.

===== PDF PAGE 14 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 391
Figure 9. LaVallée facilities are grouped into four classes based on the attractiveness value. (A) It is
represented by the attractive LIDL hypermarket. (B) It is a set of facilities situated at the intersection
of Zone 1 and Zone 3. (C) It is located south of Cours des Commerces and is characterized by a high
density of activities. (D) The last group is composed of isolated facilities at the edge of the district.
5.1.3. LaVallée Secondary Plans’ Instances
In order to generate the secondary plan instances, a specific approach will be applied,
consisting of the first two stages of the proposed location-choice process: generation
and assessment.
First, the set of all possible combinations composed of leisure, shopping, and restaurant
is generated, and then transformed into home-based tours, adding the home activity as the
first and last activity. Next, the generated tours are instantiated according to all facilities of
each activity at LaVallée (see Table 1). In sum, we count 15 activity-sequence combinations
for 29,565 instances in LaVallée.
After generating the set of instances, the assessment stage can then be applied. For
each instance, benefit, travel time, and scores can be calculated.
5.2. Catchment Area: Activity Plans
In this section, we discuss the generation of activity plans for the entire population
within the catchment area.
First, activity plans are devised for LaVallée residents, employees, and students.
Subsequently, for individuals residing outside LaVallée, their activity plans mirror those
generated in the reference situation. Finally, for individuals engaged in secondary activities,
their plans are modified to include an alternative plan with the same sequence of activities,
but conducted within LaVallée.

===== PDF PAGE 15 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 392
5.2.1. LaVallée: Residents’ Plans
Generating plans for LaVallée residents involves creating primary and secondary
plans separately and subsequently applying the matching process as defined in Section 4.2
between the two sets generated.
In the primary plan generation process, two sets of plans are created: home-to-work
and home-to-education.
Using available data on LaVallée residents, we estimate that there are approximately
3000 worker-residents, assuming that these individuals work outside the catchment area.
To estimate their workplaces, we extract a work destination distribution, referred to as
“work-borders”, from simulation results in the reference situation. This distribution is
depicted in Figure 10.
Figure 10. (Left) Distribution of work-activity of the inhabitants of the catchment area in the reference
situation. (Right) Spatial distribution of simulated border workplaces.
A resident’s home-to-work plan is generated as a home-based tour, with work as
the sole activity. The workplace is determined based on the “work-borders” distribution.
Among these resident-workers, 100 agents are selected to perform kindergarten activities,
which are positioned between the home and work activities. This corresponds to the
capacity of the “Crèche”.
Similar to the primary plan for work, a resident’s home-to-education plan is generated
as a home tour. Depending on the educational institution, three groups of plans are
distinguished: home-to-Groupe Scolaire, home-to-Collège, and home-to-Lycée. The first
two sets of plans occur within LaVallée, while those associated with the Lycée take place
outside LaVallée but remain within the catchment area.
In the second part of the generation process, the residents’ secondary plans will
be generated.
Initially, activity chains consisting solely of secondary activities are created for all
LaVallée residents using the generator developed in [26]. In total, 2165 secondary plans
were generated, representing approximately 41% of LaVallée’s total population. These
plans include leisure and shopping activities in roughly 90% of cases, distributed as follows:
half are home-to-leisure tours, around one-third are home-to-shopping plans, and about
9% encompass both activities. Additionally, restaurant activities are part of 11% of the
generated plans. The distribution of secondary activity chains for LaVallée residents is
outlined in Table 3.

===== PDF PAGE 16 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 393
Table 3. The share of secondary activity chains of the residents of LaVallée.
Activity act N act Share (%)
Leisure 1094 50%
Shopping 644 30%
Restaurant 77 4%
Leisure ∧ Shopping 202 9%
Restaurant ∧ (Leisure ∨ Shopping) 148 7%
Second, based on the information available regarding the distribution of inhabitants
in LaVallée, as illustrated in Figure 7, a home location is assigned to each resident and,
consequently, to each generated activity chain.
Third, the selection stage of the location-choice process outlined in Section 4.1.3 is
applied to each agent.
After generating the primary plans and instantiating the secondary plans, the subse-
quent step involves applying the matching process. This process takes both sets of plans
as input.
Regarding the matching conditions C, we assume that only adult agents will partici-
pate in a secondary plan. Currently, we lack information on the age of the residents. To
address this issue, we assume that agents engaging in educational activities at the Groupe
Scolaire or Collège are very young and will not have a secondary plan or be subject to the
matching process.
The second parameter is the matching rate, which strongly depends on an agent’s
participation in a secondary activity. We assume thatrmatch equals the agent’s probability of
engaging in leisure, shopping, or restaurant activities. According to the reference situation
scenario, the rate of participation in a secondary activity is set to rmatch = 37%.
After applying the matching process to all primary plans, it is possible that a set of
plans remains unmatched.
To incorporate these unmatched plans into the final set of plans, an integration pro-
cedure can be used. For each unmatched plan, an available home location is randomly
selected while respecting the home-capacity constraint. The unmatched plan is then up-
dated and integrated into F.
5.2.2. LaVallée Office and Schools: Plans for Workers and Students
The second category of agents in LaVallée, referred to as externals, can be further
divided into two subgroups: employees and students. The majority of employees work
primarily at the “LIDL headquarters”, with fewer employed at the “LIDL supermarket”
and “co-working space”. Conversely, students are represented by pupils attending the
“Groupe Scolaire” and “Collège”.
We assume that employees live outside the catchment area, while students are consid-
ered to reside in proximity to LaVallée. Primary plans for external workers and students
are generated in a manner similar to the approach detailed in Section 5.2.1.
Depending on the type of agent, two distinct location-choice approaches are implemented.
For pupils, the home choice is determined through a distance-based approach, subject
to specific constraints. For example, home location selection is restricted to places situated
within a radius of 1.5 kilometers from LaVallée. Conversely, for employees, due to a lack of
information regarding their origins, the home-choice process as developed in [26] cannot
be accurately applied.
To address this limitation, we assume that the origins of external employees follow
a distribution similar to that of the destinations of employees within the catchment area.
Consequently, the “work-borders” distribution, as presented in Figure 10, is utilized as
an alternative.

===== PDF PAGE 17 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 394
5.2.3. LaVallée’s Impact on the Catchment Area: Potential Visitors
After generating activity plans for LaVallée residents, employees, and students, the next
step involves creating activity plans for agents residing in the catchment area but outside of
LaVallée. These plans mirror the same set of plans generated in the reference situation.
Special attention is directed towards potential visitors, who are agents with secondary
activities. We propose modifying their plans by introducing one or more new plans
that include secondary activities to be carried out within LaVallée. Consequently, the
location-choice process developed in [26] must first be adapted and then applied to each
potential visitor.
In the following, the adjusted location-choice process is illustrated. First, a potential
visitor a is randomly selected from the set of agentsA; its sequence of activities is composed
of two home-based tours:
1. T1 = home → work → home.
2. T2 = home → leisure → shopping → home.
T1 is a home-to-work tour, while T2 consists of a leisure and a shopping activity. From
this last tour, three sequences of activities can be derived and subsequently carried out in
LaVallée. An agent’s activity plan, its two home-based tours, and its sequences of activities
AS derived from T2 are shown in Figure 11.
Figure 11. Potential visitor’s activity plan and its derived activity sequences. The given activity
plan is divided into two tours: T1 with work activity and T2 with sequence of leisure and shopping
activities. From T2, three sequences of activities AS can take place in LaVallée, which are (1) leisure,
(2) shopping, and (3) leisure followed by shopping.
Subsequently, the adjusted location-choice process is applied to all sequencesAS, with
an illustration of a sequence, such as AS2 = shopping , detailed as follows:
Initially, the selection constraints C are solely defined by their activity sequence
constraints CA = shopping . Since a potential visitor does not reside in LaVallée, the
home constraint Chome is no longer necessary, as it will not correspond to any instance of I
generated earlier (see Section 5.1.3).
Hence, the constraint CA is applied to I, selecting all instances with a shopping activity.
Given that the home location no longer influences the selection process, only instances with
distinct shopping locations are retained.
Moreover, in the selection process, a potential visitor is only interested in a place
of activity with high attractiveness. Therefore, the first score measure S1 expressed in
Equation (3) is chosen as the assessment function.
For instance, the filter parameter k will have the same value as in the previous illustra-
tion (k = 3). The selected instances and the selection rates are detailed in Table 4.

===== PDF PAGE 18 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 395
Table 4. The score and selection rate of the instances chosen for the home-to-shopping tour. In
h?, the home location is ignored; only the shopping facility is taken into account in the location-
choice process.
Instance inst S 1(inst ) Rinst
h? → sh01 → h? 56 51%
h? → sh11 → h? 28 25%
h? → sh16 → h? 26 24%
Finally, a single instance (n = 1) is selected based on weight rates R. For example, the
first instance is chosen, and thus, its shopping facility sh01 is extracted. The same process
applies to AS1 and AS3.
In summary, the tour T2 will consist of four different instances (AL). In addition to
the original sequence AL0, the three instances result from the application of the previous
process. The combination of T1 and AL will generate a set of visitor plan instances. During
the travel simulation, the plan with the best score is the one selected by the agent: some
will retain their secondary activities outside of LaVallée, while others will change their
location and conduct their shopping or leisure within LaVallée.
For each potential visitor, their set of plans will first be updated and then included in
the final set of F, where a simulation in a projection situation will be performed. The simu-
lation results, along with the impacts of potential visitors on LaVallée and the catchment
area, will be detailed in the next section.
5.3. Validation of the Method
To validate the forecast planning of activities of a projection scenario, we compare it
with the reference situation in the catchment area. A more thorough validation method
would need to assess the visitation of all amenities of the new district after occupancy:
once it is built and frequented. But even once the real estate project is finished, only small
data would be publicly available, and they would be based on aggregate travel surveys.
Indeed, no call data record (CDR) would be available freely and at this level of spatial scale:
indeed, the CDR data proposed by private operators indicate that one cell corresponds to
the level of the whole catchment area. Therefore, we based our validation on aggregated
travel surveys currently available and make the assumption that the population habits will
not vary significantly in this area.
The criteria for validation is the same as those used by Horl et al. [18]: their synthesis
process assigns secondary locations to the activity chains. They show (Figure 9 in [ 18])
the resulting distance distributions for the car and walking modes from, to, and between
secondary activities of up to 20 km and 1 km, respectively. They used cumulative distance
distribution because they have access to it in the detailed national household travel survey
that they had access to. We do not have access to such fine-grained data, but we had access
to the last publicly available data at the scale of the department. The travel census EGT
2010 (Enquête Globale Transport 2010 [29]) gathers aggregated information on the travel of
the residents of the department of Hauts-de-Seine in the western suburb of the city of Paris,
France. The census does not provide detailed data on the activity planning of the residents;
therefore, it was not possible for us to display cumulative distance distribution, but it
provides an estimation of the mean traveled distance per trip by private vehicle (5 km),
walking (500 m), and cycling (2 km) according to the census. These mean distances are
shown in black in Figure 12. As in [18], we compared these mean distances with secondary
activities’ range per trip for Leisure and Shopping, respectively, in blue and red in Figure 12.
Private vehicle and cycling mode of transportation are correctly modeled especially in the
case of Leisure activity. There is more error for the walking trips, but it was also the case in
the study presented by Horl et al. [18] for this transportation mode.

===== PDF PAGE 19 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 396
Figure 12. Mean range per trip by car, walking, and cycling. Black bars show the mean distance
traveled by residents of the department, and can be considered as the ground truth. Blue and red
bars display the results of the simulation for Leisure and Shopping activities.
6. Impacts of a Future District on Its Catchment Area
6.1. Introduction
The purpose of this study is to provide an overview of the potential impacts of the
LaVallée district on its surrounding catchment area in this projection scenario.
To evaluate these impacts comprehensively, we implicitly consider the influx of exter-
nal visitors. These external flows are estimated based on realistic pre-project movements
within LaVallée’s sphere of influence.
Potential visits refer to specific needs that currently occur outside the neighborhood but
could become more convenient if realized within LaVallée once the real estate developments
are completed. Furthermore, this study is formalized with the intention of addressing the
following questions:
• Where would the visitors originate in terms of their home locations?
• What would be the distribution of travel modes for trips to LaVallée?
• How far would visitors travel in terms of distance and travel time?
The two objectives of this analysis are (1) to examine the visitor profile concerning
accessibility to LaVallée and (2) to estimate a range of travel-related metrics.
6.2. Key Performance Indicators with the Future District
6.2.1. Proportion of Visitors from the Catchment Area
In this part of the study, we focus on agents who have leisure and shopping activities
in their daily plans and offer them an alternative location within the new district for these
specific activities. We identify the factors that influence their decision to change location,
favoring a visit to the new district.
This stage of the assessment approach is relatively straightforward and involves sev-
eral steps. First, we assign a travel mode to each trip representing a visit to LaVallée. Then,
we analyze the impacts of two relevant planning strategies on the proportion of visitors.
Based on the simulation results in the reference situation, we filter out agents conduct-
ing secondary activities. Notably, potential visitors make up approximately 44% of the total
number of agents for shopping activities (56,009 people) and an even higher percentage for
leisure activities, with 60,084 agents representing 48% of the total population.
We estimate that 4% of potential visitors would prefer to carry out a secondary activity
in LaVallée to create a more favorable daily activity plan. After running the travel simu-

===== PDF PAGE 20 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 397
lations, we compile a final list of agents performing activities in LaVallée. The final set of
agents performing an activity in LaVallée is reported in Table 5, distinguishing between
residents and external visitors. The results reveal that more than two-thirds of the agents
engaging in secondary activities in LaVallée are external visitors, constituting 68% of the
total number of agents participating in leisure activities and 72% of those engaged in
shopping activities. Moreover, these visitors represent approximately 4.4% and more than
5% of the total number of potential visitors, respectively, for shopping and leisure activities.
A summary of these results is presented in Tables 5 and 6.
Table 5. Agents represent users that perform a secondary activity in LaVallée. More than two-thirds
of the visits to the shopping and leisure facilities in LaVallée are carried out by external visitors.
Activity Agents Residents Externals Pexternals
Leisure 4464 1424 3040 68%
Shopping 3448 961 2487 72%
Table 6. The proportion of visitors varies between 4% and 5% for both leisure and shopping.
Activity Visitors Potential Visitors Pvisitors
Leisure 3040 60,084 5.1%
Shopping 2487 56,009 4.4%
6.2.2. Future Accessibility of LaVallée
In this section, our primary focus is on addressing the first challenging question:
“Where do the visitors to LaVallée originate?” To tackle this question, we estimate the
accessibility of visitors to LaVallée. This measurement provides crucial insights for our
analysis by enabling us to understand the origins of visits to LaVallée. Additionally, we
separately estimate the proportion of visitors relative to their home-to-LaVallée Euclidean
distance for leisure and shopping activities. The spatial distribution of these activities is
visually represented in Figure 13.
Figure 13. Spatial distribution of secondary facilities in the study area. (Left): Leisure facilities are
tenuous and dispersed along the study area and are mostly concentrated in large park areas. (Right):
Shopping facilities can be spatially grouped in clusters, which are located mainly in large avenues
and around city centers.
Figure 14 illustrates the distribution of visitors based on their place of residence,
categorized by IRIS zones, with a particular focus on areas in close proximity to LaVallée.
Figure 15 displays the relative and cumulative frequency of external visitors in relation
to the home-to-LaVallée distance for both leisure and shopping activities.

===== PDF PAGE 21 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 398
Figure 14. Distribution of visitors to LaVallée according to their home location and grouped by IRIS
zones. The area circled in black covers visitors who reside near LaVallée (500 m radius), while the
areas circled in blue and green gather the most visitors, who have easy access to LaVallée.
Figure 15. Relative frequency of visitors according to the home-to-LaVallée distance. (a) For leisure,
the majority of visitors live less than 2 kilometers from LaVallée. (b) For shopping activity, almost all
external visitors live near LaVallée.
The results presented reveal that, for leisure activities, 35% of visitors reside within
a 1-kilometer radius of LaVallée, 41% live in an area ranging from 1 to 2 kilometers, and
only 24% live more than 2 kilometers away. Conversely, for shopping activities, 85% of
visitors live within a 1.5-kilometer radius, with 59% residing within a 1.5-kilometer area,
while only 15% live beyond this distance.
In terms of the relative frequency of visitors based on Euclidean distance to LaVallée
(refer to Figure 15), it becomes evident that most visitors’ residences are situated within a
2-kilometer radius. As one would expect, the decision to engage in activities in LaVallée is
significantly influenced by the distance to LaVallée itself; generally, the farther a visitor’s
home is from LaVallée, the less likely they are to visit.
An explanation for these findings is primarily associated with secondary facilities and
their spatial distribution.
As Figure 13 illustrates, leisure facilities are dispersed across the catchment area,
primarily consisting of large public parks such as “Parc de Sceaux” near LaVallée, “Parc
Vallée aux Loups” approximately 2.5 km from LaVallée, and “Parc départemental Henri-
Sellier” located 3.5 km from LaVallée. Except for “Parc de Sceaux”, all other leisure
destinations are situated at least 2 km away from the district. The spatial distribution of

===== PDF PAGE 22 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 399
these large parks may explain the significant proportion of leisure visitors (38%) residing
more than 1.5 km from LaVallée.
In contrast, shopping facilities are abundant, encompassing both small and large areas,
and they are well distributed across the study area, often grouped in clusters. For instance,
considering the same home-to-LaVallée distance (more than 1.5 km), only 15% of visitors
opt to visit LaVallée for shopping. This lower number of shopping visitors can be attributed
to the fact that LaVallée is relatively distant from their residences compared with their
original shopping facilities.
In conclusion, we can ascertain that the proportion of external visitors engaging in
secondary activities in LaVallée is significantly influenced by two key factors: the number
of available facilities and their spatial distribution within the catchment area.
6.2.3. Future Travel Modes by Activity
In this analysis, our focus centers on addressing the next important question: “Which
mode of transportation will visitors choose to get to LaVallée?” To answer this question, we
calculate the modal share for both leisure and shopping activities. Tables 7 and 8 present
the modal share percentages for leisure and shopping trips, respectively.
Table 7. Leisure mode share.
Mode Number of Trips Modal Share
Car 898 23%
PT 319 8%
Walk 2386 61%
Bicycle 292 7%
Table 8. Shopping mode share.
Mode Number of Trips Modal Share
Car 300 9%
PT 62 2%
Walk 2804 83%
Bicycle 229 7%
From Table 7, it is evident that more than 60% of leisure trips are taken by foot,
followed by car usage at 23%. Cycling and public transport represent the least utilized
modes, each accounting for only around 8% of trips.
For shopping trips (refer to Table 8), the walking mode dominates the share with
over 80%, followed by car usage at 9% and biking at 7%. A noteworthy observation is
the surprisingly low usage of public transportation, which does not exceed 2% of the
modal share.
Apart from the commonality of walking as the preferred mode for both leisure and
shopping trips, biking also occupies a similar share for both travel purposes. However,
there is a substantial disparity in the use of the car mode between leisure and shopping
trips. Among the various travel modes, public transportation covers the fewest trips.
These results can be explained by the nature of the location-choice approach for
secondary activities, which primarily relies on distance-based considerations. Furthermore,
it is worth noting that approximately 84% of visitors live within a 2-kilometer radius of
LaVallée. Consequently, these short-distance trips tend to favor micromobility options,
especially walking and, to a lesser extent, cycling [30].
Conversely, longer trips are notably less frequent. As indicated in Figure 15, these
extended journeys are less common for leisure compared with shopping. This difference
may explain why cars are used less frequently for shopping compared with leisure.

===== PDF PAGE 23 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 400
It is important to highlight that trips taken via public transport have the lowest
frequency. This reduced modal share can be attributed to the inherent nature of the mode
choice process, which is predominantly distance-based. Consequently, public transport
trips tend to cover greater distances compared with walking or cycling trips.
Additionally, the implementation of the LaVallée plan introduces alterations to transit
routes and subsequently affects travel times. Changes in travel time and distance directly
impact the plan’s overall score and, consequently, the traveler’s decision-making process.
For instance, opting for a longer route to conduct an activity in LaVallée can reduce the score
of the plan and, subsequently, lead to the decision not to undertake the activity in LaVallée.
Furthermore, it is worth noting that leisure trips are typically shorter than shopping trips,
which may contribute to the disparities observed in the modal share between the two types
of trips.
6.2.4. Future Travel Time and Travel Distance by Mode
Having estimated the accessibility of LaVallée and having determined the modal share
for the two secondary activities, we now turn our attention to the next challenging question:
“How far do visitors travel in terms of both travel distance and travel time?”
To address this question effectively, we need to explicitly consider specific travel
metrics. These include measures such as average travel time and average travel distance
categorized by mode of transport. Consequently, we apply these selected measures sepa-
rately to leisure and shopping trips, with the aim of highlighting the differences in metric
values between these two types of activities.
The first measure we consider is the average travel distance. As depicted in Figure 16,
car trips stand out as the longest, covering an average of 4.5 km for leisure and just over 3
km for shopping. For the other modes of transport, no significant differences are observed
between the two types of activities. External visitors typically travel around 3 km by public
transit to reach LaVallée, less than 1 km by foot, and approximately 1.5 km by bicycle.
Figure 16. Average travel metrics by different transportation modes. (Left) Leisure trips are relatively
longer than shopping trips; car mode is selected for longer trips, while walking is more suitable for
short trips. The differences between the modes are greater for leisure trips than for shopping trips.
(Right) Journeys made by public transport are on average longer than journeys made by car and by
foot, while journeys by bicycle are the quickest.
The second metric we examine is the average travel time. We observe a pattern
similar to the first metric regarding differences between leisure and shopping trips for all
modes. The average trip durations by mode are as follows: 22 min by public transportation,
approximately 14 min by foot, and less than 5 min by bicycle. In contrast, car trips for
leisure purposes take 30% longer than those for shopping, with 12 min for leisure and 8 min
for shopping.
In summary, it becomes apparent that leisure trips tend to be relatively longer than
shopping trips. The differences are moderate, with a 10% variation for active modes and
an even greater 30% difference for car trips.

===== PDF PAGE 24 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 401
Furthermore, an intriguing observation pertains to the metric values for trips taken
by public transport. While leisure trips are slightly longer than shopping trips in terms of
distance, the average travel time is nearly identical. This phenomenon may be explained by
the variations in travel times and speeds between different types of public transit vehicles.
For instance, buses and trams are the two primary modes of public transport used for trips
to LaVallée.
7. Conclusions
In this paper, we address the challenge of generating activity plans for agents in a
hypothetical projection scenario, with only limited data available about a future district
and its inhabitants. To overcome this lack of information, we propose a method to answer
two key questions: How can we create activity plans for future neighborhood agents? What
approach should be adopted to assign locations for secondary activities at the neighborhood
level? Our methodology has a dual objective: first, to adapt the generator developed in
[26] to incorporate the available data and, second, to extend the location-choice approach
beyond district-scale distance-based decisions by integrating the attractiveness of facilities.
As an application of our method, we investigate the future impacts of the LaVallée
district on the surrounding population. To accomplish this main objective, we establish
and execute a simulation scenario in the projection situation using a multi-agent-based
simulation model called MATSim.
Overall, this article is a detailed application of MATSim to a planned new occupation:
the method proposed enabled us to construct the daily activity planning of people in a
future real estate still under development. It reads like a very specific empirical exercise
that can be generalized, reproduced, and learned by the community. It takes into account
people residing the future premises, the current inhabitants of a 15 min catchment area
including five cities around the district, and future workers originating from outside
this area of influence. We argue that the model is still reliable if one considers the only
data available for comparisons with aggregated data from a larger area composed of
non-uniform urban fabrics.
One of the perspectives of improvement of the proposed method is in the definition of
the values of the “urbanistic potential” of zones. In this work, we based our estimation on
a discussion with expert architects of the real estate project to set these values. One way
of improvement would be to implement a method of data mining on publicly available
data, such as social media reviews of individuals (Airbnb, Tripadvisor, Foursquare) to
automatically note a public place based on its urbanistic features. One would be able to
automatically give a zone potential to a block of buildings based on the various activities
its encompass.
Another perspective of this work is to measure the impact of the newly built district
on the catchment area based on real observations. This would be possible in a few years,
once the district is delivered and after a household travel survey is performed. Such a
study would more accurately ascertain the output of the proposed methodology, especially
the number of daily visitors of the district coming from outside of it.
Decision makers need tools that enable them to accurately forecast the near- and
medium-term conditions of transportation supply and demand. They also need to evaluate
the consequences of various policies and strategies for a more effective management of
these conditions. We believe that this approach could prove invaluable to professionals
who are concerned with estimating transportation flows and their distribution among
different modes, especially in situations where there is no access to public travel census
data or there are no means to conduct one.
Author Contributions: Supervision, R.B.; funding acquisition, R.B.; investigation, R.B. and Y.D.;
methodology, Y.D. and R.B.; writing—original draft, R.B. and Y.D.; writing—review and editing, R.B.
and Y.D. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.

===== PDF PAGE 25 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 402
Funding: This research was funded by the E3S project, a partnership between Eiffage and the I-SITE
FUTURE consortium. FUTURE bénéficie d’une aide de l’État gérée par l’Agence Nationale de la
Recherche (ANR) au titre du programme d’Investissements d’Avenir (référence ANR-16-IDEX-0003)
en complément des apports des établissements et partenaires impliqués.
Data Availability Statement: Data are contained within the article.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
References
1. Petropoulos, F.; Apiletti, D.; Assimakopoulos, V .; Babai, M.Z.; Barrow, D.K.; Ben Taieb, S.; Bergmeir, C.; Bessa, R.J.; Bijak, J.;
Boylan, J.E.; et al. Forecasting: Theory and practice. Int. J. Forecast. 2022, 38, 705–871. [CrossRef]
2. Delhoum, Y.; Belaroussi, R.; Dupin, F.; Zargayouna, M. Modeling Activity-Time to Build Realistic Plannings in Population
Synthesis in a Suburban Area. Appl. Sci. 2021, 11, 7654. [CrossRef]
3. Chiu, Y.C.; Bottom, J.; Mahut, M.; Paz, A.; Balakrishna, R.; Waller, S.; Hicks, J.Dynamic Traffic Assignment: A Primer; Technical
report; Transportation Research Board: Washington, DC, USA, 2011.
4. Bliemer, M.C.J.; Raadsen, M.P .H.; Brederode, L.J.N.; Bell, M.G.H.; Wismans, L.J.J.; Smith, M.J. Genetics of traffic assignment
models for strategic transport planning. Transp. Rev. 2017, 37, 56–78. [CrossRef]
5. Yaméogo, B.F.; Gastineau, P .; Hankach, P .; Vandanjon, P .O. Comparing Methods for Generating a Two-Layered Synthetic
Population. Transp. Res. Rec. 2021, 2675, 136–147. [CrossRef]
6. Zhu, Y.; Ferreira J., Jr. Synthetic population generation at disaggregated spatial scales for land use and transportation microsimu-
lation. Transp. Res. Rec. 2014, 2429, 168–177. [CrossRef]
7. Lim, P .P .; Gargett, D. Population synthesis for travel demand forecasting. In Proceedings of the 36th Australasian Transport
Research Forum (ATRF), Brisbane, Australia, 2–4 October 2013; pp. 2–4.
8. Ye, P .; Tian, B.; Lv, Y.; Li, Q.; Wang, F.Y. On Iterative Proportional Updating: Limitations and Improvements for General Population
Synthesis. IEEE Trans. Cybern. 2022, 52, 1726–1735. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
9. Lovelace, R.; Birkin, M.; Ballas, D.; van Leeuwen, E. Evaluating the Performance of Iterative Proportional Fitting for Spatial
Microsimulation: New Tests for an Established Technique. J. Artif. Soc. Soc. Simul. 2015, 18, 21. [CrossRef]
10. Ye, P .J.; Wang, X.; Chen, C.; Lin, Y.T.; Wang, F.Y. Hybrid agent modeling in population simulation: Current approaches and future
directions. J. Artif. Soc. Soc. Simul. 2016, 19, 12. [CrossRef]
11. Ye, P .; Hu, X.; Yuan, Y.; Wang, F.Y. Population Synthesis Based on Joint Distribution Inference Without Disaggregate Samples.
J. Artif. Soc. Soc. Simul. 2017, 20, 16. [CrossRef]
12. Lenormand, M.; Deffuant, G. Generating a Synthetic Population of Individuals in Households: Sample-Free Vs. Sample-Based
Methods. J. Artif. Soc. Soc. Simul. 2013, 16, 12. [CrossRef]
13. Ma, L.; Srinivasan, S. Synthetic population generation with multilevel controls: A fitness-based synthesis approach and
validations. Comput.-Aided Civ. Infrastruct. Eng. 2015, 30, 135–150. [CrossRef]
14. Templ, M.; Meindl, B.; Kowarik, A.; Dupriez, O. Simulation of synthetic complex data: The R package simPop. J. Stat. Softw. 2017,
79, 1–38. [CrossRef]
15. Johnsen, M.; Brandt, O.; Garrido, S.; Pereira, F. Population synthesis for urban resident modeling using deep generative models.
Neural Comput. Appl. 2022, 34, 4677–4692. [CrossRef]
16. Borysov, S.S.; Rich, J.; Pereira, F.C. How to generate micro-agents? A deep generative modeling approach to population synthesis.
Transp. Res. Part C Emerg. Technol. 2019, 106, 73–97. [CrossRef]
17. Farooq, B.; Bierlaire, M.; Hurtubia, R.; Flötteröd, G. Simulation based population synthesis. Transp. Res. Part B Methodol. 2013,
58, 243–263. [CrossRef]
18. Hörl, S.; Balac, M. Synthetic population and travel demand for Paris and Île-de-France based on open and publicly available data.
Transp. Res. Part C Emerg. Technol. 2021, 130, 103291. [CrossRef]
19. Namazi-Rad, M.R.; Tanton, R.; Steel, D.; Mokhtarian, P .; Das, S. An unconstrained statistical matching algorithm for combining
individual and household level geo-specific census and survey data. Comput. Environ. Urban Syst. 2017, 63, 3–14. [CrossRef]
20. Bhat, C.R.; Guo, J.Y.; Srinivasan, S.; Sivakumar, A. Comprehensive econometric microsimulator for daily activity-travel patterns.
Transp. Res. Rec. 2004, 1894, 57–66. [CrossRef]
21. Vovsha, P .; Petersen, E.; Donnelly, R. Model for allocation of maintenance activities to household members.Transp. Res. Rec. 2004,
1894, 170–179. [CrossRef]
22. Gärling, T.; Kwan, M.p.; Golledge, R.G. Computational-process modelling of household activity scheduling. Transp. Res. Part B
Methodol. 1994, 28, 355–364. [CrossRef]
23. Miller, E.J.; Roorda, M.J. Prototype model of household activity-travel scheduling. Transp. Res. Rec. 2003, 1831, 114–121.
[CrossRef]
24. Arentze, T.; Timmermans, H. Albatross: A Learning Based Transportation Oriented Simulation System ; Citeseer: Princeton, NJ,
USA, 2000.
25. Roorda, M.J.; Miller, E.J.; Habib, K.M. Validation of TASHA: A 24-h activity scheduling microsimulation model. Transp. Res. Part
A Policy Pract. 2008, 42, 360–375. [CrossRef]

===== PDF PAGE 26 =====

Forecasting 2024, 6 403
26. Delhoum, Y.; Belaroussi, R.; Dupin, F.; Zargayouna, M. Activity-based demand modeling for a future urban district. Sustainability
2020, 12, 5821. [CrossRef]
27. Horni, A.; Nagel, K.; Axhausen, K.W. The Multi-Agent Transport Simulation MATSim; Ubiquity Press: London, UK, 2016.
28. Wrona, Z.; Buchwald, W.; Ganzha, M.; Paprzycki, M.; Leon, F.; Noor, N.; Pal, C.V . Overview of Software Agent Platforms
Available in 2023. Information 2023, 14, 348. [CrossRef]
29. STIF. Enquête Globale Transport, 2010. Available online: https://www.drieat.ile-de-france.developpement-durable.gouv.fr/
enquete-globale-de-transport-r2431.html?lang=fr (accessed on 15 March 2024).
30. Delhoum, Y.; Belaroussi, R.; Dupin, F.; Zargayouna, M. Analysis of MATSim Modeling of Road Infrastructure in Cyclists’ Choices
in the Case of a Hilly Relief. Infrastructures 2022, 7, 108. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.